Updating the Transcript Rules (#2064)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/audio-transcript-2eb176.md

description: |
  This rule checks that `audio` elements have a transcript that includes all auditory information.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.2.1: # Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) (A)
    forConformance: true

>     secondary: true

Reviewer: Should we start putting a reason here, as done in #2060 ?

Author: I will assign these questions to @WilcoFiers as not sure on the secondary requirements needs.

Reviewer 2: I'll handle it in my PR. Don't worry about it here. @HelenBurge maybe just remove this change from the PR and let me handle it on my PR.

>     secondary: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. This is because the rule does not consider that the audio may be a media alternative for text. Some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.
```

    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed

>     inapplicable: further testing needed

Reviewer: Iirc, we do not have mappings for secondary requirements 🤔

Author: I will assign these questions to @WilcoFiers as not sure on the secondary requirements needs.

Reviewer 2: As above

>   wcag20:1.2.1: # Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) (A)
>     forConformance: true
>     secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. This is because the rule does not consider that the audio may be a media alternative for text. Some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  wcag20:1.2.1: # Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded) (A)
    secondary: This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. This is because the rule does not consider that the audio may be a media alternative for text. Some of the failed examples satisfy this success criterion.
```

description: |
  This rule checks that `audio` elements have a transcript that includes all auditory information.

> accessibility_requirements:

Reviewer 3: Add SC 1.3.1 as a secondary requirement because it only applies when the transcript is visible.

Reference [Rules Format 1.1 Example 10](https://w3c.github.io/wcag-act/act-rules-format.html#example-cfb70282)

Author: We did not include 1.3.1 as made the transcript as an assumption - I am not sure this should be done.

Reviewer 3: Since we added Passed Ex 4, we would want to add 1.3.1 as secondary so an implementation that fails 1.3.1 is still consistent with this rule.

## Applicability

This rule applies to every [non-streaming](#non-streaming-media-element) `audio` element for which at least one of the following is true:

- the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; or

> - the element has a [play button][] that is [visible][].

Reviewer 3: why was "and included in the accessibility tree" removed here?

Author: Because from the survey discussion we agreed that to test the rule 1.2.1 the AT part is for a different checkpoint so it was made as an assumption instead: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OSkPFocXk4K3zYLnwS78WLsWO4PvE5yRcsauyefuIUI/edit#gid=1605073031

> - the element has a [play button][] that is [visible][].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the element has a [play button][] that is [visible][] and [included in the accessibility tree][].
```

## Expectation

The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a [clearly labeled location][].

**Note:** A "text transcript" in the context of this rule is defined in WCAG 2 as an [alternative for time based media](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-alternative-for-time-based-media).

## Assumptions

> This rule assumes that if a transcript is present it is [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer: It feels more like a [Background note](https://www.w3.org/TR/act-rules-format/#background) ("information about the background for the development of the rule") than an [Assumption](https://www.w3.org/TR/act-rules-format/#assumptions) 🤔 (sorry 😅)

How about moving it to Background and phrasing it like:
```suggestion
Transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users in order to satisfy WCAG. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.
```

(and do the same with the other rules)

> Transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users in order to satisfy WCAG. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to satisfy WCAG, transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.
```
Rearranging this sentence.  My reason is that with the current arrangement, someone might think that it means this: `In order to satisfy WCAG, transcripts only need to be available to sighted users.  But WCAG doesn't go far enough - really, transcripts need to be available to all users.`   That's not true.  My suggestion clears it up.

> In order to satisfy WCAG, transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a transcript is present, it is assumed it is in the accessibility tree. In order to satisfy WCAG, transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.
```

## Accessibility Support

There are no accessibility support issues known.

## Background

> Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted. For these, the rule is never applicable. But for browsers that autoplay not muted video, the rule is still applicable.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless it is muted, which makes the rule inapplicable in these browsers. The rule stil applies to browsers that autoplay not muted 'video'.
```

> Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless it is muted, which makes the rule inapplicable in these browsers. The rule still applies to browsers that autoplay not muted 'video'.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless it is muted, which makes the rule inapplicable in these browsers. The rule still applies to browsers that autoplay unmuted 'video'.
```

> Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless it is muted, which makes the rule inapplicable in these browsers. The rule still applies to browsers that autoplay an audible 'video'.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is needed. The applicability includes a play button, so the rule could still apply if the audio does not autoplay.

## Applicability

This rule applies to every [non-streaming](#non-streaming-media-element) `audio` element for which at least one of the following is true:

> - the element has an [autoplay][] [attribute value][] of `true`; or

Reviewer 6: Since autoplay here is referring to the HTML attribute I don't think it needs to link to the definition.

- the element has a [play button][] that is [visible][] and [included in the accessibility tree][].

## Expectation

The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a [clearly labeled location][].

**Note:** A "text transcript" in the context of this rule is defined in WCAG 2 as an [alternative for time based media](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-alternative-for-time-based-media).

## Assumptions

If a transcript is present, it is assumed it is in the accessibility tree. In order to satisfy WCAG, transcripts need to be available for all users, not just sighted users. This rule does not test this, and it needs to be tested separately.

## Accessibility Support

There are no accessibility support issues known.

## Background

> Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless it is muted, which makes the rule inapplicable in these browsers. The rule still applies to browsers that [autoplay][] an audible 'video'.

Reviewer 6: This one should link to the autoplay definition, but since it is being used in the Background section, the definition doesn't need to be objective.

This rule applies to every [non-streaming](#non-streaming-media-element) `audio` element that is:

> - autoplaying; or,

Reviewer: What does "autoplaying" means? [Audio or video element avoids automatically playing audio](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/80f0bf/proposed/) has a bunch of conditions for it.

Also, if the video plays but not automatically (e.g. after user interaction, but maybe that interaction hides the play button thus removing the second condition), would the rule become inapplicable?

Author: I updated the PR description with how we decided on this in a meeting.

Reviewer: I have no problem with using autoplay in the rule, but it needs to be somewhat defined or clarified. In #2030 and the following discussion, we've seen that "autoplay" is not as easy as we could think.

Does that refers to the `autoplay` attribute or something else? How do we handle the fact that browsers do not always respect it (due to engagement index, …)?

I think that "autoplaying" in somewhat ambiguous and needs to be clarified.

> - has a [play button][] that is [visible][].

Reviewer: I do not really agree with the removal of the inclusion in the accessibility tree.
Looking at the survey report, the argument was that this might be a 1.3.1 failure rather than a 1.2.1. However, looking at the [Understanding document](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/audio-only-and-video-only-prerecorded.html) (which is not normative, but still very helpful) (emphasizes mine):
* The first sentence of the Intent is:
  > The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by prerecorded audio-only and prerecorded video-only content **available to all users**.

  "available to all users" does imply that it is in the accessibility tree, since it would otherwise not be available to AT users.
  Especially, if a silent video has a hidden transcript, this does not provide any kind of alternative for blind users and I think that would fail 1.2.1.
* The first Benefit is:
  > This Success Criterion helps people who have **difficulty perceiving visual content**. Assistive technology can read text alternatives aloud, present them visually, or **convert them to braille**.

  People who have difficulties with visual content would not benefit at all from an alternative that is not included in the accessibility tree; as far as I know, braille displays also work with the accessibility tree and won't be able to present the alternative.
* The fourth benefit is:
  > People who are deaf-blind can read the text in braille.

  Again, not sure that this is possible if the alternative is not included in the accessibility tree.

I'm rather of the opinion that having an inaccessible alternative is actually a failure of 1.2.1 and thus should be part of this rule. This is maybe something that we need to discuss further.

## Expectation

> The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a clearly labeled location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a [clearly labeled location][].
```
Plus add
```
[clearly labeled location]: #clearly-labeled-location 'Definition of Clearly Labeled Location'
```
in the references list at the end.

> The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a clearly labeled location.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why it is OK to have a transcript that is not included in the accessibility tree.
Wouldn't that be problematic, e.g., for Braille display users?

Author: I believe it was due to the fact the transcript might not be included in the current page and therefore not in the accessibility tree.

> This rule applies to every [non-streaming](#non-streaming-media-element) `audio` element that is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule applies to every [non-streaming](#non-streaming-media-element) `audio` element for which at least one of the following is true:
```
(taking the opportunity to update to how we write these now)

> - [autoplaying](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#autoplay); or,

Reviewer: We normally avoid quoting from non-W3C sites, especially vendor ones. If this is just about the `autoplay` attribute like the "3 seconds" rule:
```suggestion
- the element has an `autoplay` [attribute value][] of `true`; or
```

> - has a [play button][] that is [visible][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the element has a [play button][] that is [visible][].
```

## Expectation

The auditory information of each test target is available through a text transcript. That text transcript is [visible][], either on the page or through a [clearly labeled location][].

**Note:** A "text transcript" in the context of this rule is defined in WCAG 2 as an [alternative for time based media](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-alternative-for-time-based-media).

## Assumptions

This rule assumes that if a transcript is present it is [included in the accessibility tree][].

## Accessibility Support

There are no accessibility support issues known.

## Background

> It is known that the user can set the browser to prevent autoplay. This rule assumes the browser has not been set to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some major browsers do not automatically play the 'video' unless the 'video' is muted. For these, the rule is never applicable. But for browsers that autoplay not muted video, the rule is still applicable.
```
(copying from #1655 for consistency)

#### Passed Example 3

> This `audio` element has an [autoplay][] attribute and an external transcript.

Reviewer 6: Since autoplay here is referring to the HTML attribute I don't think it needs to link to the definition.

#### Failed Example 4

> This `audio` element has an [autoplay][] attribute and an incorrect external transcript.

Reviewer 6: Since autoplay here is referring to the HTML attribute I don't think it needs to link to the definition.

</html>
```

> #### Failed Example 6

Reviewer: I'd like to have a Passed example with a transcript that is only visible but not included in the accessibility tree.
This serves as documentation that the CG and TF have reached the conclusion that it is not necessarily a failure of 1.2.1.

If inaccessible transcript is always a failure of 1.2.1, I don't think we should remove it for the rule. We can add 1.3.1 as a secondary requirement if needed (to allow implementations that report it to have a consistent implementation), or we need a separate rule checking that transcripts are accessible (but I don't see plan for that other rule yet 🤔).

Author: The assumption states the transcript is part of the accessibility tree so is this still true?

Reviewer 3: Agree to keep this example but as passed

Author: Moved up :)
